Agenda
======

Pinned Topics
-------------
* Review any outstanding external [pull request](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+-label%3A%22State%3A+In+Progress%22) or [issues](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues)?
* Any updates to [tracking design table](https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-TrackingDesignProposals.md)?
* Find volunteer for presentation at next mantid review meeting

New Items
---------

* Update on Workbench status/deprecation and removal of MantidPlot.
* How can we best plan / adjust the developer workshop to work remotely?
  * including considering the time zones of attendees, and trying to involve as many people as possible.

Minutes
-------
Draper, Fairbrother, Gigg, Guest, Hahn, Nixon, Peterson, Savici, Vardanyan

* Workbench status
  * working through list on [epic ticket](https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/27475)
  * trying to get as much as possible ready for 5.1 release
  * ORNL GUIs will be done by ORNL
  * May consider pushing 5.1 release back to get the rest of required features in
* Developer meeting
  * Start pre-planning for virtual meeting
  * TSC preferred holding the meeting in smaller time-slots across more days
  * Peterson will look for topcs/themes from past two developer meetings
  * Pefer topics that get small groups working together
  * Preliminary dates are October 14-16, 2020
  
