# Minutes

## Mantid PMB Meeting 14

**Minutes of: 2019-05-31T09:00-4:00**

**In Attendance:**

```
* ESS - Taylor, Jackson
* ILL - Gonzalez, Vardanyan
* ORNL - Granroth, Peterson, Ramirez-Cuesta, Leal
* ISIS - Draper, Manuel, Moore, Cottrell
```

1. Changes to the PMB

- PMB chair position is still available. J. Taylor will continue as the chair of PMB position at least until the European Review is done (autumn 2019).

2. Pending issues / actions from the last PMB meeting

* J. Taylor's draft version of the document that  describes the charge, terms and  proposed committee for a review of the Mantid project at European  Neutron Facilities was generally agreed by the PMB.
  - Current version will be circulated through the PMB and then sent to the heads of the facilities for approval.
  - It was generally agreed that the panel in the report is heavily composed by US members and lacks of user representation.
  - The PMB will look for more users and European members to address the lack of representation in the panel.

* Progress on the uniformity across the facilities / instruments: interfaces, workflows, etc. 
  - Identify areas where uniformity is possible.
  - N. Draper will keep a document live with this information and will share it with the PMB.

* Progress on the PMT:
  - N. Draper will forward the Terms and Conditions document with the changes to the initial document highlighted.
  - The PMB has until the end of June 2019 to send suggestions. The document will be final after that.

* Progress on the new ESS Dataset design and integration with Mantid.
  - Once Dataset is refactored there will be internal discussions (at ESS) about the integration and/or interface with Mantid.

3. PM Report
* N. Draper shared the PM report with the PMB members. Points to highlight:
  - ISIS and ILL both have fewer developers contributing to Mantid.
  - First release of the slice viewer
  - ISIS interfaces ported successfully
  - Survey of the VSI:
    - it appears that only Christina at ORNL uses it
    - volumetric users do not have a clear vision of their needs. They probably need prototypes to start refining a solution.
  - Total scattering: only SNS and ISIS have this technique.
    - Users/developers of both facilities should meet for a workshop/code camp do define a clearer path of the requirements.
  - Support for Windows 7 and 8 will be dropped in the next release.

  - N. Draper will share report about the Grenoble's meeting.
  - Grenoble's meeting:
    - Not sufficient user intervention
    - More users need to be present at next Meeting
    - Facilities need to present a list of users for the next Users Meeting.

4. TSC Report

- P. Peterson shared the report live at:
    https://github.com/mantidproject/documents/blob/master/Project-Management/TechnicalSteeringCommittee/reports/TSC-PMB-report-2019-05-31.md

6. Facility updates / news

- ISIS: D. Greenfield retired.
- ILL: second endurance phase delayed. New positions will be advertised this summer. ILL hope to have 3 or 4 new people working on Mantid by the end of the year.
- ORNL:
  - J. Billings is new head of the scientific computing group.
  - New STS Head position will be advertised.

7. Next user / developer workshop

- It will be held at the SNS.
- It will coincide with the ACNS. The dates are not set yet.


8. Next PMB Meeting

- The new meeting dates should coincide with the International Collaboration on Advanced Neutron Sources (ICANS XXIII) from 13. October 2019 - 18. October 2019. 


## Summary of actions

- J. Taylor will circulate the current version of the document that  describes the charge, terms and  proposed committee for a review of the Mantid project at European  Neutron Facilities.
- PMB will look for more users / european members to address the lack of representation in the panel of the Mantid project at European  Neutron Facilities.
- N. Draper will keep a document with the uniformity across the facilities / instruments live and will share it with the PMB.
- N. Draper will forward the PMT Terms and Conditions document with the changes to the initial document highlighted.
- N. Draper will share report about the Grenoble's meeting.
- The Facilities need to present a list of users for the next Users Meeting.
- Once the ACS dates are set, R. Leal will inform the PMB so the date for next user / developer workshop can be set.
-  R. Leal will send a doodle for the next PMB meeting.
