# Minutes

## Mantid PMB Meeting 16

**Minutes of: 2020-05-13 UTC12:00-14:00**

**In Attendance:**

```
* ESS - Andrew Jackson, Jon Taylor (PMB Chair)
* ILL - Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Gagik Vardanyan
* ISIS - Lamar Moore, Toby Perring, Pascal Manuel, Hannah Griffin
* ORNL - Mathieu Doucet, Andrei Savici
* Non-facility - Nick Draper (PM), Peter Peterson (TSC chair), Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair), Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```

## Agenda

- Date and review of planning for MantidPlot deprecation
- Review PMB / Mantid Project governance documents (all should look through beforehand)
- Update on Advisory Board Status
- Fix dates for User meeting in the period January-April 2021, and discuss Developer meetings


## 2. PM Report / Planning for MantidPlot deprecation:
**Nick Draper talked through the main points of the report.**

- Proposed and agreed to delay version 5.1 by 2 months until 28th Sep 2020 and then the version 6.0 by one month until 6.0. MantidPlot should be removed in an early nightly of 5.1.
- Do not announce the date of version 6, but mention that 5.1 will be the last with Plot.

- 5.1 will be as feature complete as possible and 6.0 will be the first without MantidPlot.
- It was discussed as important to determine how "feature complete" 5.1 is and this should be evaluated through collaboration with scientists before and after the release of 5.1, such as getting key individuals to test and signoff (SciSteeringCommittee)
- Pas noted the testing for Martyn on IDAaaS development

- There should be a feature comparison of Workbench and MantidPlot. Is release notes enough for this?
- We aim to get all requirements need for "feature complete" 5.1 Workbench, but user experience and feel issues may come up between 5.1 and 6.0. Some of the delay time is to allow for scientists to test Workbench.

- Hannah proposed that ISIS and maybe other facilities could put full development effort on getting workbench feature complete. More non-core developers may be utilised, but using all may not be appropriate for instance when working in similar parts of code (sliceviewer)

## 3. Dates for User Meetings

- As many facilities are uncertain as to when they will be running, this should be discussed in the next PMB (mid-August /early September) meeting.
- A user meeting must be face-to-face and hopefully after the release of 6.0.
- Aiming for mid-March to End of April

## 4. Mantid Governance

- Lamar provided his current research before the meeting. 
- Governance will be discussed in more detail in the next PMB: how could it be changed and what should be changed? What are the other practises out there and what is appropriate for Mantid? Within this what role should the PMB have (proactive vs reactive)
- Mantid is a relatively unique project, being a multi-facility software projects with some similar requirements and other different.

## 5. Miscellaneous

- Mantid Advisory Board has a new date: December 2nd-4th Go/No go start of October 
- Remote use of Workbench may become more prevalent.
- A virtual developer meeting has been discussed for 14-16 October 2020 (old NOBUGS date)
- Facility (loose) Plans: 
    - ISIS may have September cycle without users at ISIS.
    - ILL August-September without users, so end of September is end of cycle
    - SNS is doing COVID-19 research

## Actions
- [ ] For next PMB (August/Sept), each facilities should come with ideas as to when the next user meeting can be in March-April.
- [ ] Lamar and Andrew to prepare a document for next PMB to start discussions around governance of similar projects.
- [ ] A document comparing features in Workbench and Plot should be prepared.

## Next Agenda (mid-August - after Sept 7th when code freeze 5.1 is):

- Evaluation of how "feature complete" Workbench 5.1 is.
- Decide when in mid-March to End of April 2021 the next User Meeting will be. (Go/No-go)
- Governance Discussions (including insight from Lamar and Andrew)
