# Minutes

## Mantid PMB Meeting 17

**Minutes of: 2020-07-08 UTC12:00-14:00**

**In Attendance:**

```
* CSNS - 
* ESS - Andrew Jackson, Jon Taylor (PMB chair)
* ILL - Miguel Gonzalez, Paolo Mutti, Gagik Vardanyan
* ISIS - Lamar Moore, Toby Perring, Pascal Manuel, Hannah Griffin (latter half of meeting)
* ORNL - Mathieu Doucet, Andrei Savici
* Non-facility - Nick Draper (PM), Peter Peterson (TSC chair), Stephen Cottrell (User Group Chair), Daniel Murphy (Secretary)
```
**This Emergency PMB meeting was called to discuss the immediate plans as the contract between ISIS and Tessella for this project will end in September, 2 days before version 5.1 code-freeze, (with the exception of Martyn Gigg remaining until December or March).**

## Interim PM candidates

ESS - Do not actively develop enough for Mantid to put forward a candidate.

ILL – Not currently the resource required or long-term knowledge to provide a PM candidate. It was mentioned that if no individual facility can source a PM then all facilities could jointly fund this role.

ISIS – Put **Lamar** forward for Interim PM. He is currently working on taking over from Nick as local PM and he will be supported by many other people. There will also be more recruitment for 3 new devs very soon.

SNS – Put **Pete** forward as the interim, possibly the full future PM with his long-term involvement in the project. (Pete joked that Martyn has deleted more lines of code than himself.) He proposed some future changes such as cutting back the PM role and replacing the PMB with a review board that organises priorities for the project, after which the local PM liaises with local team leads.


Mathieu and Jon agree that there should not be too much change as this could cause chaos in the short-term.
It was mentioned that a benefit to having the PM at ISIS is they give the largest contribution of developers.

The Tessella devs leaving will have a code freeze a week earlier than everyone else. While Martyn will provide some technical support for the actual release...

**Lamar and Pete** will act as Joint Interim PMs to coordinate the next release and **Pete has final (Go/No Go) say**, with potential for pushing back the release.

## Release and Governance

*Delay 5.1 release*: It would be good to have more time for the next release period, as there will be fewer people with the knowledge (in particular of the new parts) of the code-base. If things need fixing then the release could simply be delayed. This does not matter as no facility relies on using it straight away. 

*Budget Responsibility on PMB*: In line with fixing governance, the PMB should include Budget responsible people from each facility, at least in one meeting a year.

*Create a Working group* from PMB members for updating and adding some resilience to governance. 
- The long-term governance model and plans for a future PM should be ready for the Mantid Advisory Board in December. 
- The next PMB meeting shall be held in mid-late August to allow for Nick's input. 
- Each facility should come to the next PMB with proposed ideas and preferences for a new governance model. This should be prepared in a document to be circulated among the PMB in the week before the August meeting. 
- Daniel can be secretary and organise the working group. The first meeting of the working group will be the week after the next PMB meeting, to hopefully also include Nick.

*Considerations for Governance Proposals*: 
- Are there any legal problems with changing the governance? This has been the case at SNS before.
- Important to NOT plan a model that is too complicated or cannot be implemented as Mantid is mission critical for most facilities.

*Other ideas*
- Andrew briefly mentioned the idea of an Executive team, with each facility's local PM and then a PMB like group which actually allocates budget towards projects and involve scientists with the overall aims (this may involve stronger following of current rules!)
- It was also mentioned that the future PM role could circulate every few years between the facilities, providing more collective ownership of the direction of the project.
- Governance should be informed by user collaboration, involving Steve.

*Dev Meeting*
- Whether the virtual developer meeting at October goes ahead or is delayed is the responsibility of the TSC (Pete).
- Delaying the dev meeting so the new 3 ISIS recruits can engage could be useful for the project.


## Summary of Actions: 

- [ ] Each facility should nominate people for the working group (email Daniel), including at least one budget responsible person, to thrash out the details of future governance.
- [ ] Each facility should (chose someone to) create and *circulate a document* of their proposals and preferences for future governance before the next PMB meeting (August)

- [ ] Next PMB mid-late August (after 12th at least) to include Nick.  
- [ ] Daniel organise next PMB and working group (first meeting week after next PMB, with Nick also at this first meeting)

## Next Agenda

- Go through governance proposals from each facility with Nick's input.
- Working Group Membership
